[docs] Added Running a Python app with Opentelemetry manual instrumention (#2380)
kubeshop/tracetest: docs/docs/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-python-app-with-opentelemetry-collector-and-tracetest.md

## Prerequisites

You will need [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed on your machine to run this quick start app!

## Project structure

The project is built with Docker Compose. It contains two distinct `docker-compose.yaml` files.

### 1. Python app
The `docker-compose.yaml` file and `Dockerfile` in the root directory are for the Python app.

### 2. Tracetest
The `docker-compose.yaml` file, `collector.config.yaml`, `tracetest-provision.yaml`, and `tracetest.config.yaml` in the `tracetest` directory are for the setting up Tracetest and the OpenTelemetry Collector.

The `tracetest` directory is self-contained and will run all the prerequisites for enabling OpenTelemetry traces and trace-based testing with Tracetest.

### Docker Compose Network
All `services` in the `docker-compose.yaml` are on the same network and will be reachable by hostname from within other services. E.g. `tracetest:21321` in the `collector.config.yaml` will map to the `tracetest` service, where the port `21321` is the port where Tracetest accepts traces.

## Python app

> The Python app is a simple flask app, contained in the `app.py` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Python app is a simple Flask app, contained in the `app.py` file.
```

> The below code imports all the flask, opentelemetry libraries and represents opentelemetry manual instrumentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code below imports all the Flask, and OpenTelemetry libraries and configures both manual and automatic OpenTelemetry instrumentation. 
```

```
from flask import Flask, request
import json

from opentelemetry import trace
from opentelemetry.sdk.resources import Resource
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace import TracerProvider
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace.export import BatchSpanProcessor
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace.export import ConsoleSpanExporter

provider = TracerProvider()
processor = BatchSpanProcessor(ConsoleSpanExporter())
provider.add_span_processor(processor)
trace.set_tracer_provider(provider)
tracer = trace.get_tracer(__name__)
```

> There are 3 endpoints to the application which gets hit everytime for manual instrumention & automatic instrumention("/manual", "/automatic", "/") respectively. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 3 endpoints in the Flask app. For seeing manual instrumentation trigger the `"/manual"` endpoint. For seeing the automatic instrumentation trigger the `"/automatic"` endpoint respectively. 
```

```
app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route("/manual")
def manual():
    with tracer.start_as_current_span(
        "manual", 
        attributes={ "endpoint": "/manual", "foo": "bar" } 
    ):
        return "App works with a manual instrumentation."

@app.route('/automatic')
def automatic():
    return "App works with automatic instrumentation."

@app.route("/")
def home():
    return "App works."
```

> As you can see the `Dockerfile` uses the command above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Dockerfile` includes bootstrapping the needed OpenTelemetry packages. As you can see it does not have the `CMD` command. Instead, it's configured in the `docker-compose.yaml` below.
```

        target: /app/provisioning.yaml
    ports:
      - 11633:11633
    command: --provisioning-file /app/provisioning.yaml
    depends_on:
      postgres:
        condition: service_healthy
      otel-collector:
        condition: service_started
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", "wget", "--spider", "localhost:11633"]
      interval: 1s
      timeout: 3s
      retries: 60
    environment:
      TRACETEST_DEV: ${TRACETEST_DEV}

  postgres:
    image: postgres:14
    environment:
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres
      POSTGRES_USER: postgres
    healthcheck:
      test: pg_isready -U "$$POSTGRES_USER" -d "$$POSTGRES_DB"
      interval: 1s
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 60

  otel-collector:
    image: otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:0.59.0
    command:
      - "--config"
      - "/otel-local-config.yaml"
    volumes:
      - ./tracetest/collector.config.yaml:/otel-local-config.yaml

```

Tracetest depends on both Postgres and the OpenTelemetry Collector. Both Tracetest and the OpenTelemetry Collector require config files to be loaded via a volume. The volumes are mapped from the root directory into the `tracetest` directory and the respective config files.

> **Why?** To start both the Python app and Tracetest we will run this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yaml -f tracetest/docker-compose.yaml up # add --build if the images are not built already
```

The `tracetest-config.yaml` file contains the basic setup of connecting Tracetest to the Postgres instance.

```yaml
postgres:
  host: postgres
  user: postgres
  password: postgres
  port: 5432
  dbname: postgres
  params: sslmode=disable

```

The `tracetest-provision.yaml` file provisions the trace data store and polling to store in the Postgres database. The data store is set to OTLP meaning the traces will be stored in Tracetest itself.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml

---
type: DataStore
spec:
  name: OpenTelemetry Collector
  type: otlp
  isdefault: true
```

```

    healthcheck:
      test: pg_isready -U "$$POSTGRES_USER" -d "$$POSTGRES_DB"
      interval: 1s
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 60

  otel-collector:
    image: otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:0.59.0
    command:
      - "--config"
      - "/otel-local-config.yaml"
    volumes:
      - ./tracetest/collector.config.yaml:/otel-local-config.yaml

```

Tracetest depends on both Postgres and the OpenTelemetry Collector. Both Tracetest and the OpenTelemetry Collector require config files to be loaded via a volume. The volumes are mapped from the root directory into the `tracetest` directory and the respective config files.

The `tracetest-config.yaml` file contains the basic setup of connecting Tracetest to the Postgres instance.

```yaml
postgres:
  host: postgres
  user: postgres
  password: postgres
  port: 5432
  dbname: postgres
  params: sslmode=disable

```

The `tracetest-provision.yaml` file provisions the trace data store and polling to store in the Postgres database. The data store is set to OTLP meaning the traces will be stored in Tracetest itself.
```yaml

---
type: DataStore
spec:
  name: OpenTelemetry Collector
  type: otlp
  isdefault: true

>   

Reviewer: Can you add a closing triple backtick for this code block?

Like this: ```
